confidence

My Name is abhishek baghel I have completed my graducation in computer science with 7.9 CGPA in 2021
I am devops engineer with 3.9 years experience in cloud infracture, CICD integration and container orchestration.
Coming to my work experience I currently works at capgemini technologies where I have been involved in various projects which includes automating infrastructure, building CICD pipeline with the help of jenkins and manging cloud services in AWS.
I have strong background in manging and setting up devops tools like jenkins , k8s  and docker.
I am passionate about learning new technologies and implementing solutions. also In my free time i like to play cricket and travel.
currently i am looking for a job change,  challenging role /opportunity to enhance my skills 
I'm currently seeking a challenging role that allows me to enhance my skills and contribute effectively to impactful projects.

 
In my day to day activities, I mainly focus on 
Automating Infrastruction by creating CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins.
So recently I worked for UK based Bank where  I managed and give solutions for infra and microservice architecture
So  when jira ticket is assigned to me I work on D&D after givinng D&D I write pipeline for the change needed in the requirement then give show & tell to explain the team .

So we follow git flow strategy
In which we separate brnaches like feature development relaease bug hotfix 
I create branch from development and then raise pr 


Jenkins is an automation server which is widely used for CI/CD which includes building, testing and  deploying code. jenkins follows master slave architecture, 
master node is the central server for all tasks and serves as a brain of jenkins system.
worker node execute build jobs dispatched by jenkins master it can be located in same or different machine.


k8s - is a comntainer orchestration platform which manages container and provides feature like autoscaling, self healing , 
1. Scalability and Flexibility
2. High Availability
3. Simplified Deployment and Management
4. Portability
5. Efficient Resource Utilization
6. Security

Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes, which simplifies the process of deploying, managing, and versioning applications on Kubernetes clusters. Helm uses charts to define, install, and upgrade applications in a Kubernetes environment. Charts are pre-configured templates for Kubernetes resources (pods, services, deployments, etc.) that can be easily installed or updated.


Docker is containarization platform which packages an application and its dependencies together in the form of containers
docker image is a readonly template that contains application code 

versions :

Jenkins: 2.496 
Docker: 24.0.5 
Kubernetes: 1.29 
openshift: 4.13
Helm : 3.12.3
Prometheus : 2.47.0
Grafana: 10.0.0
Elasticsearch: 8.9.0 
Logstash: 8.9.0  
Kibana: 8.9.0  
Terraform: 1.10.0
HashiCorp: 1.14.0
SonarQube: 10.0.0
Git: 2.42.0 
Istio: 1.18

port
jenkins -       8080
mysql -         3306
mongodb -   27017
ssh     -          22
DNS    -         53
HTTP   -        80
HTTPS  -      443


git fetch - retrieves changes from a remote repository but does not apply them to your working directory. 
git pull - is a combination of git fetch and git merge. It fetches changes from a remote repository and immediately merges them into your current branch.
git merge  - integrates changes from one branch into another by creating a new commit that merges the changes.
git rebase -  moves or reapplies commits from one branch onto another, creating a linear history without a merge commit.
git stash temporarily saves changes that you don’t want to commit immediately 
You can revert the commit with git revert,
git reset : rewrite history (which is discouraged),
git reflog is a mechanism for tracking updates to the tip of branches. It allows you to view historical references for a branch, including commits that have been removed from history (e.g., through a reset or rebase).
git squash :  git rebase -i HEAD~<number-of-commits> 
Cherry-picking allows you to apply a specific commit from one branch to another